Governor Andrew Cuomo welcome to the
daily social distancing show pleasure to
be with you I'm a big fan well thank you
very much I think everyone is a big fan
of yours right now because more than
ever during this pandemic people have
sought out leaders who communicate
effectively and seem to know what
they're trying to do nobody has all the
answers about coronavirus but people
look for leaders who know what they
would like to do let's start off with
New York where does New York stand right
now in terms of the numbers and in terms
of its trajectory well the good news is
we have shown that we can control the
spread of the virus right which people
take for granted now but I wasn't always
so sure we could have taken all these
measures close down stay home and we
could have seen that spread continue to
go up that would have been a really
frightening place but that was a
possibility we showed that we can
control the spread it went up the
so-called plateau would hit a flat spot
and now we're on the downside of the
plateau
the question is how fast is that decline
and how long does it take to make the
decline
we have about 1,300 people per day new
diagnoses coming into the system we lost
about 474 people yesterday which is a
horrific number but it's the only good
news is it's less than the previous
numbers of people we lost and the
hospitalization rate is coming down we
have about 16,000 people in hospitals so
the numbers are all on the decline and
that's the good news
how long does it take until that number
gets to a small enough level where you
can sleep at night and not worry about
it it could be two weeks could be three
weeks could be six weeks you're
balancing the pressure of the people who
want to and need to get back to earning
a living and also you know the pressure
of keeping people safe as as a leader
how are you weighing these numbers is
there a point when you say the risk is
worth taking to go outside yeah that's
you put the you put the question very
and often the question is more important
than the answer and here is one of those
cases I think that is the balance the
pressure that people are under is
phenomenal it is traumatic
this is traumatic for people and that's
the way I think about it you're right
the economic pressure you have no
paycheck but meanwhile they're still
sending you the bills you know there was
the the bill collector is an essential
worker and they're piling up on your
desk you don't know when you'll go back
you don't know if you will go back you
don't know if your job is still there if
your business is still there you've been
in the house with the family for a month
it sounds romantic
the first seven days and then it gets
highly stressful when you have everyone
in that environment with nothing to do
when everyone has their own stresses so
it's a people are about to burst on one
level they're under that kind of
pressure on the other hand we had 474
people died yesterday you tell me how
many people go outside today and touch
other people I'll tell you how how many
people walk into a hospital three three
days from now the cause and effect is
that tight this this virus communicates
and transfers that quickly and that
precisely so you think the situation
like New York City where social
distancing cannot happen by definition
nobody gets six square feet of real
estate right you don't get six feet on a
subway car or on a bus or on the
sidewalk you will see those numbers go
up it is an impossible balance Trevor
it's impossible to make people to make
both sides are happy if you will and you
just have to accept that and for me it's
going to be about the data we're going
to do testing we're going to look at
that hospitalization rate we're going to
look at that death rate and you don't
start to reopen until you have those
numbers under control so so what is that
number for you do you have that number
is there a number that medical
professionals or experts have given to
you and said this is the
number that we think activates New York
reopening they won't give me the number
Trevor because you're right
nobody's been here on any of these
situations what they will say is the
number will decline to a level that is
basically a low constant because you
can't stop all transmission of the virus
right we're never going to get down to
zero so when you get down to the lowest
level you can
that's your low point because remember
the economy's not really closed down
right you still have essential workers
out there you have people on buses and
transportation and people in grocery
stores so that will be some low level
constant and once we hit that number
then you can talk about starting to
reopen so so we're seeing governors
around America we're seeing leaders
around the world using different tactics
to reopen their countries for instance
in Denmark they've started opening up a
few schools in Germany they're getting
ready to do that in Georgia they said
they're going they're going straight to
bowling alleys and hairdressing you know
salons etc do you have an idea are you
going to say to New Yorkers hey we're
gonna start with these industries or
this world week then we're going to move
to this then we're gonna move to that or
does it all open at once do you have an
idea of what that would be no it has to
be phased in it has to be slow and
building and watch that infection rate
as you start to open up the valve to
reopen right as you increase the flow
keep your eye on that infection rate
we're going to have the most aggressive
testing program ever done just to
monitor that that infection rate
remember the hospitalization rate is too
late hospitalization rate is people who
are so sick they went into a hospital we
want to track the infection rate so we
watch that start opening the flow slowly
and then basically it's a matrix how
essential is the business and how high a
risk does the business pose the more
essential business is first and the
lower risk business is first so
barbershops Hair Salons to me they are
on the end
of the chain because they're not that
essential people would argue but in the
scope of things they're not that
essential and they are high-risk because
I want to see a person perform a haircut
and maintain socially social distancing
while they give you a haircut and I want
to see the haircut that they do after
they did it socially this so that would
be at the back end right and on the
front end you would just basically be
doing the next tranche of essential
services right what's the next level of
essential and low-risk essential you're
in an interesting place right now where
you are the Governor of New York but you
are one of many governor's who's entered
into a pact to try and open up a region
yeah because as you said publicly you
know that the the virus doesn't follow
state lines
you you can't implement this approach
without the federal government helping
you where it needs to now your self and
Trump have gone back and forth but one
thing you've both acknowledged is that
when it comes down to it you know how to
communicate and you work together you
had a meeting with the president was
there anything food full from that
meeting is there anything that's going
to come from that meeting and what is
the relationship between yourself and
Trump / the federal government right now
in getting New York what it needs well
the relationship between myself and the
president is the president doesn't like
me that is the relationship it is
unambiguous it is honest it is open and
he doesn't like my politics let's say
and we have been at political
loggerheads many times over the past few
years if you look at his Twitter account
you'll see my name quite often none of
it good Trevor
none of it good and I've sued the
federal government a number of times so
that's it's open and it's not
necessarily loving having said that we
had a meeting in the White House and it
was a very productive meeting and I
don't mean in diplomatic conceptual talk
it was a honest open granular detailed
conversation about this subject of
testing
which is totally new for everyone it's
an impossible undertaking because the
numbers are just so extraordinary and
there's so much urgency to it but we had
a very honest conversation and we went
through what is testing and what should
the state do and what should the federal
government do and we basically allocated
tasks so it was a very positive
conversation and look I give them credit
because it's hard to actually sit down
with someone who you have differences
with and say put that all aside and
let's just do our jobs here our
respective jobs because it's bigger than
we are
and and that's what yesterday was it was
forget everything else
we're talking about life and death we're
talking about the profound the moment of
our history that we will experience and
we have a job to do because we're in a
position and let's just do it and forget
everything else and that's the way it
should be you know who cares how he
feels or how I feel who cares about how
I feel about him personally my feelings
are irrelevant my emotions are
irrelevant just do the job who cares
about what I think of what he thinks and
that's what yesterday was it's really
great to hear that and and and the
testing part of it is is what really
jumps out for me because one thing most
people seem to agree upon all across the
world is with testing that's going to be
our best defense against coronavirus
before vaccine testing and tracing this
virus what does that mean though for you
as the governor of New York does it mean
every New Yorker has some method where
they their self testing or getting
tested and then monitoring themselves
does it mean that people who come from
out of state or out of country can or
cannot come in unless they're tested I'm
really intrigued by how this is gonna
work because unless the whole world is
doing the same thing one hole might be a
hole for everybody you know they could
sink the entire ship so what does that
mean for you in terms of testing and how
to be applied there will always be a net
with many holes in it to stick with your
analogy I don't think you
going to have enough tests anywhere to
design the perfect system okay testing
capacity we are trying to jump-start a
testing laboratory system that just
doesn't do this I have private labs in
my state there are national
manufacturers of lab kits and lab
equipment but we're asking them to go to
50 times what they've been doing if you
took every machine in the state of New
York that does this and you ran it seven
days a week 24 hours a day you could get
up to about 40,000 tests per day all
right
that is the maximum capacity it sounds
like a lot but it's not when you're
talking about 19 million people I've
done more tests in this state than any
state in the United States we do more
tests than any country per capita and
we've tested about 500,000 people it
sounds like a lot of people but again
not on a population of 19 million not on
a workforce of nine million and that was
500 in one month you want to bring them
back based on tests you can't do it what
tests can do is monitor the spread of
the virus that you can do with tests and
that is the single most important thing
to me because as you're opening the
reopening valve and increasing the flow
what you need to know is how many people
are getting infected and that testing
can do for you it can also do antibody
testing which tells us how many people
were infected but also identifies people
who can do the convalescent plasma
treatment which is important and it
gives employers a tool in their
workplace to test the test a smaller
number so you know for those that next
tranche of essential businesses that
their workers are fine but you're never
going to be able to do a net that covers
New York or any other state as the
governor you you
facing a pinned pandemic right now in
one of the most affected places in the
world the the horizon unfortunately
brings with it another dark side and
that is people's finances you know
yes peeps some people may have been able
to stop paying their mortgage some may
have been given a little leeway to pay
their rent or not pay their rent what
happens on the other side of this is is
there a plan to help people to help New
Yorkers who now may have a landlord who
says well you owe me two times the rent
or now you owe me double this or double
that is is there any plan in place to
try and alleviate that stress that may
be felt post corona we're talking about
it Trevor and we're thinking about it we
don't have a specific plan yet because
we don't know how bad it is I have said
short-term no one can be evicted for
non-payment okay so you're out of work
you're not having a check you cannot be
evicted for non-payment that is the
immediate short-term problem right
depending on how long this goes you'll
have other issues down the road no doubt
the expression stone to stone across the
morass right how do you get across the
morass and that's all we see right now
is a morass in front of us stone to
stone you don't have to figure out the
whole path just find the next firm stone
to advance your progress and that's what
we're doing so deal with the here and
now and then we'll figure out the future
when we actually see what the future is
because we have been wrong from day one
here right every projection has turned
out turned out to be incorrect so I'm at
the point where let me see the facts
that I'm dealing with and then we'll
deal with them well that's our show for
tonight
but before we go with businesses closing
and people still losing their jobs lots
of people are struggling to find a meal
right now but you can help them by
donating to feeding America they're
supplying food to millions of Americans
every single day and they could really
use your help even a dollar can help
somebody get a meal don't forget that
until tomorrow though
stay safe out there wash your hands and
remember you can save toilet paper by
peeing in the shower
[Music]